---
title: "Can We Still Measure Circular Dichroism with Circular Dichroism Spectrometers: Anisotropic Artifactsin Multiscale Hierarchically Structured Films from Magic-Sized Clusters"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2023-fall-mrs-1
venue: "MRS Fall Meeting 2023"
date: 2023-11-27
location: "Boston, MA"
---

[More information here](https://www.mrs.org/meetings-events/fall-meetings-exhibits/2023-mrs-fall-meeting/symposium-sessions/presentations/detail/2023_mrs_fall_meeting/2023_mrs_fall_meeting-3958832)

Chiral materials with strong linear anisotropies are difficult to accurately characterize with circular dichroism (CD) because of artifactual contributions to their spectra from linear dichroism (LD) and birefringence (LB). Recently, we have discovered that CdS magic-sized clusters (MSC) can self-assemble into ordered films that have a hierarchical structure spanning seven orders of length-scale[1]. Because of the small size of MSCs and because of their high organic-ligand/core ratio, these hybrid materials have “softer” inter-particle interactions, with access to a richer phase diagram beyond the classical close packed structures seenwith larger nanoparticles, resulting in self-organization into anisotropic patterns. These films have a strong CD response, but the chiral origins are obfuscated by the hierarchical architecture and LDLB contributions. Here, we derive and demonstrate a method for extracting the “chiroptic” CD signal (CD generated by structural dissymmetry) from hierarchical MSC films and identify the chiral origin [2]. The theory behind the method isderived using Mueller matrix and Stokes vector conventions, making use of a second-order Taylor series expansion to extract the CD. The method is verified experimentally before it is applied to hierarchical MSC and nanoparticle films with varying macroscopic orderings. Each film’s extracted chiroptic CD shares a bisignate profile aligned with the exciton peak, indicating the assemblies adopt a chiral arrangement and form an exciton-coupled system. Interestingly, linearly aligned MSC films possess one of the highest g-factors (0.05) among semiconducting nanostructures reported. Further, we derive an expression to model the measured CD using a third order Taylor series expansion which introduces "pairwise interference" contributions to CD spectra that, unlike LDLB contributions, cannot be averaged out of the signal. We find that the third order pairwise interference terms can make noticeable contributions to the simulated CD spectra. Using numerical simulations of the measured CD across a broad range of linear and chiral anisotropy parameters, the LDLB interactions are most prominent in samples that have strong linear anisotropies (LD, LB) but negligible chiral anisotropies, where the measured CD strays from the chiroptic CD by factors greater than 10. Media with moderate-to-strong linear anisotropy are in great danger of having their CD altered by these effects in subtle manners. These experimental and theoretical studies provide a simple means to extract the chiroptic CD fromspectra anisotropically structured samples and highlight the significance of considering distortions in CD measurements through higher order interference effects in highly anisotropic nanomaterials.
[1] H. Han, S. Kallakuri, Y. Yao, C.B. Williamson, D.R. Nevers, B.H. Savitzky, R.S. Skye, M. Xu, O. Voznyy, J.Dshemuchadse, L.F. Kourkoutis, S.J. Weinstein, T. Hanrath, R.D. Robinson, Multiscale hierarchical structuresfrom a nanocluster mesophase, Nat. Mater. 21 (2022) 518–525. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-022-01223-3.
[2] Y. Yao, T.J. Ugras, T. Meyer, M. Dykes, D. Wang, A. Arbe, S. Bals, B. Kahr, R.D. Robinson, Extracting PureCircular Dichroism from Hierarchically Structured CdS Magic Cluster Films, ACS Nano. (2022)acsnano.2c06730. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.2c06730.
[3] T.J. Ugras, Y. Yao, R.D. Robinson, Can We Still Measure Circular Dichroism with Circular DichroismSpectrometers: the Dangers of Anisotropic Artifacts, Chirality. (2023) DOI: 10.1002/chir.23597.